I hate karaoke it's loud it's dumb and
I'm already both of those things hey
what the heck it's such a good intro but
look it's not about me karaoke is
beloved by millions of people including
my kids so when my daughter asked for a
karaoke machine for her birthday well
what kind of father would I be if I said
no the kind of father who didn't want to
navigate a nigh impenetrable wall of
AliExpress junk and air written review
use to find a setup of reasonable price
high quality and low complexity is a
real challenge but as we dug deeper we
found ourselves immersed in one of the
most wholesome and dedicated communities
on the web so if you're like me you may
not love Koke but you may love rabbit
holes so grab a shovel and a mining
helmet and start digging with me but
before we go it's time for the Segway to
our sponsor Corsair their 3500x case is
like a window into your soul thanks to
its wraparound glass Aesthetics and
support for Back to Front motherboards
because if you're like us your soul is
really just a bunch of PC components
check it out today using our
link here's my wants list the system
needs to be easy enough for kids to
handle ideally take advantage of
speakers that I already own it should
have as few proprietary components as
possible and be reliable and repairable
so nothing that's E-Waste the second
that I open the box I would like it to
have four inputs so that my kids can
enjoy it with friends and family but if
I have to settle for less then I will in
the last 17 days I have learned far more
about karaoke machines than I ever cared
to we've come up with three solutions
that meet linus' criteria with varying
levels of success but it wasn't easy at
least on the English internet there is
surprisingly little good information out
there about karaoke machines even Reddit
where there's a community for everything
was kind of dead honestly the biggest
problem though was the one requirement
lonus didn't mention he didn't want to
spend a fortune on this which pretty
much eliminated a commercial grade setup
with wireless microphones so lowering
our Ambitions we picked up a Yamaha
m6x it's a nice sturdy and compact mixer
that has nice vocal effects that can go
a long way to providing that karaoke bar
feel and the mixer has virtually no
noise and is relatively simple to use
use for adults we'll get to that later
first what mics did we get quality no
offense to lonus and his kids is not
that important for karaoke but what is
is durability thankfully sure kind of
nails both while we could have gone with
the perennial favorite the sh sm58 we
decided to save some money and go with
the entry-level pga48 it's all metal
sounds decent but it's hampered by some
obnoxious handling noise that might take
some practice to avoid you'll also need
some practice hooking it up XLR C cables
to plug this into the mixer qu in to RCA
from the mixer to the AV receiver maybe
some adapters some cable management
products from LTC store.com by the time
we've got all the accessories we need
we're looking at a pretty hefty bill for
our cable noodle salad down here and we
don't even have any extras like mic
stands yet but before we invest in those
we want to listen to the system so let's
just plug the mixer into the AV system
plug our computer into the HDMI port on
the TV and
just kidding just kidding you thought he
was going to do that the output coming
from this mixer should not be fed into
your typical home audio setup the quick
explanation is that your home audio
equipment is designed to play finished
files that are leveled and compressed
and stuff like that whereas the signal
from microphones can have really loud
Peaks that can actually damage your
Hardware it might not be super likely
but why risk it that's why we snagged
this PA speaker from the office for
testing it also gives us the option of
running the music through the
into the PA or we can have the vocals on
the PA speakers with the music running
through the home theater which will
reduce the total number of cables but
also make balancing levels a bit of a
pain in the butt another benefit of the
PA though is that we can move it to
reduce the likelihood of feedback which
is great but how are we going to get
music into the speakers YouTube's a
great place for tons of karaoke tracks
but it has a few problems queuing stuff
is a bit tedious and quality varies
greatly and your favorite tracks might
be ripped from your grasp at any moment
if YouTube decid besides that they're
not worthy also downloading from YouTube
can
be thankfully there are other platforms
like
iunes which is the best name ever or
better yet karaoke nerds where you can
find high quality karaoke tracks for
purchase or streaming and you can even
request karaoke versions of your
favorite songs to be made that's pretty
cool unless you're willing to tip for
their services though you're going to be
waiting a long time for your song to be
karaoke fied but you should consider
doing that because thanks to these folks
the internet is full of bar emptying
hits from bands like swans and Captain
beefart is that I've never heard of them
you've never heard of Captain Bart
anyway I think it's time to show my kids
I've spent more than I intended and we
could have saved some money if we'd gone
with cheaper stuff but the good thing
about it is this is mostly Pro suumer
grade audio equipment that should hold
its value reasonably well let's try it
out okay girls you know how sometimes
someone gets a birthday present but
everyone kind of shares it yeah yeah
that's happen
that means that you get to see
first what's that what do you mean
what's that maybe your older sister can
tell you wow it's a video
game what the got here hold take these
okay what is it karaoke
yeah do you guys want to try
it
say you're not going to try it
John they're camera shy so I guess it's
going to be me and Adam trying out the
setups there's three different
ones and I kind of wanted you guys to
help me pick which
one that's not great didn't you say you
wanted karaoke what
remember no that moment when the parent
has a better memory for what the kid
asks for for a birthday than the kid
does yeah you did it was a while back
all right get out of here
I guess you get to hear me and Adam try
them out let's go yes I've been
broken I could let go I can't keep a
straight face you know what it sounds
great though yeah you're my
Wonder remember when I said there were
three options though let's talk about
the all-in-one packages when you first
look on Amazon you will be inundated by
hundreds of options that are all
variations of the same five or six
products being sold by a myriad of
alphabet soup drop shippers and from the
research we did most of these systems
fall short in one way or another the big
one is just how proprietary so many of
the wireless mics are but we think we
may have found a good one we were turned
on to the icario Shell S1 by a Reddit
user named David _ PGH and he seems to
have put the entire Reddit karaoke
community on his back supporting them
with endless knowledge and
recommendations he responds to like
every threat rad shout out David it's
people like you that make this world a
better place this really is the whole
package it's a portable powered speaker
with two wireless microphones and a
place to store them a 10.1 in
touchscreen running Android 13 that is
pre-loaded with get this karaoke apps
that makes sense right on the main menu
we have YouTube which is actually just
Mozilla Firefox but don't worry about
that that just makes it better than
being just YouTube and caraun which
we'll talk about in a little bit while
it only has two wireless inputs we can
plug a wired mic into the back for three
panels of audio along with auxiliary in
and out HDMI out and we can run our own
songs off of a USB drive the microphones
sound great with strong directionality
to prevent feedback very little latency
great range unlike many karaoke singers
and very little handling noise there's
no cables to trip over and while you can
still surprise yourself with how loud
the thing is I don't have to worry about
blowing up my home theater system when
someone drops a microphone or messes
with the settings of course there are
downsides the components here
they are not repairable replaceable or
resellable so when the battery goes on
these mics and they will they will be
gone and unless we can access the
bootloader on this Android tablet
which I mean if any Community is going
to do it it might be the karaoke
Community they're crazy dedicated but
you can't count on that let's try this
thing out want it that way so that's the
clean original mic mode and then we can
go to karaoke hello W that's just a lot
of Reverb that's a lot of Reverb I have
a
super um okay okay this one's called
profession not professional but
profession I want cartoon we got oh my
God what's moner oh my God hello hello
children the speaker quality on this
thing not great it's loud it's
acceptable between the mic and the
speaker it handles your Voice better
than it handles mine I wonder how much
of that is to do with the speaker itself
or if it's the microphon I imagine the
microphones would usually be biased to
be good across a broad variety of voices
but feel them they are very
light not a lot going on in here hey
they they put the charging ring all the
way around the base put them inol you
just Chuck them in there and then and
turn them off though because oh yeah cuz
otherwise that'll happen but you don't
have to worry about it happening to your
speakers that's true
you heard us mentioned caraun earlier
it's really really cool an amazing
service with a library of 61,000 plus
tracks of highquality remakes of songs
with accurate lyric timing adjustable
background vocal levels key changing to
suit your voice easy queuing of tracks
and like 400 tracks for free just to
test out in case you don't want to Shell
out $10 a month for the subscription but
honestly just paying 10 bucks for one
night of karaoke that's that's kind of
worth it this thing is honestly great
and one of the coolest things is you can
bring it to a party and be doing karaoke
Within seconds with no one needing to be
taught at $280 it's not cheap but it
undercut the price of our quality DIY
setup so yeah sure you could go with a
cheaper all-in-one system but this
actually a pretty compelling package
there is a third option that Bridges the
gap between an all-in-one and a DIY uh
most in-one type setup if you will the
one we have today is from soundtown but
also there's like another company that
makes the same thing I think it's kind
of another drop Shippy situation but
unlike other Solutions this has HDMI
pass through which means it will work
seamlessly with the rest of your setup
and converting your signal to digital
will lower the risk not eliminate it of
damaging your AV setup so if you want to
hook up to that instead of getting a
dedicated PA speaker maybe try it at
around 100 bucks this thing is a great
deal coming with two wireless mics that
don't sound half bad and if you want you
can grab some cheap mics and plug them
in via the quarter-inch jacks on the
front sadly they're going to be on the
same two
channels whatever it should be okay
you're all seeing the same song and
thanks to convenient HDMI pass through
this could be the easiest solution of
any we've seen so far all right let's
try it hey now you're an allar get your
game on go play yeah so the quality is
not the highest but it's simple you have
the cables probably already and you just
need a laptop there's no doubt in my
mind that the Yamaha mixer blows away
the other Solutions if I was going to
host it and use it in my home 100% the
Yama
but this is for kids to use and I don't
trust them to be able to deal with this
when it does get messed up and also you
could damage stuff with it just hot glue
the buttons in place yeah and have fun
reselling your Yamaha mixer I think it
might be Sound Town population
me the Quick Change double a batteries
that's pretty appealing compared to some
proprietary Battery Solution you can
plug in more micro phones so it is
adaptable and if maybe if you do keep
the mixer for other reasons or you have
another mixer you could split out and
have two inputs anyways to your point if
it was for me and it was something that
I knew I was going to be there to
configure I would absolutely go DIY yeah
this is awesome this is great it sounds
so much better and you're going to be
able to use it for other stuff you could
use it at your desk for streaming and
stuff like that like with that said if
you're kind of willing to spend the
extra 300 bucks for like 50% of people
in this world I would say this is a
great option because you also get a
speaker it's all one packed easy to use
system it's pretty appealing if I was
moving around or I was like Street
busking look at this it's got the little
like strap thing on it yeah comes with
the strap too regardless of which setup
works best for you we hope you guys
learn something today like this message
from our sponsor vessie the weather
might be taking a turn for the worst but
that doesn't mean you can't keep your
feet dry and look pretty darn good doing
it too their Courtside Classics are
giving 90s with a modern Twist on a
Timeless design reminiscent of a vintage
sneaker not naming any names they have a
soft flexible tongue for putting them on
and taking them off easier and removable
insoles so you can slide in your own
orthotics for that custom fit the clean
exterior also keeps the classics subtly
cool and appropriate for any Urban
setting and of course they come with
vess's claim of being 100% waterproof so
if you always forget to check the
weather forecast before planning your
outfits well the quartsite classics got
you covered check it out at vessie
docomo techtips or click the link in the
video description for an automatic 15%
off your first purchase at checkout if
you guys enjoyed this video maybe you'll
enjoy I can't think of a more random
Rabbit Hole we've ever gone down we'll
get a video recommendation up there yeah
it'll be a good one it'll be a good one
go watch it dash cams sure